Welcome! This site allows you to generate text fonts that you can copy and paste into your Instagram bio. Its useful for generating Instagram bio symbols to make your profile stand out and have a little bit of individuality. After typing some text into the input box, you can keep clicking the show more fonts button and itll keep generating an infinite number of different Instagram font variations, or you can use one of the "tried and true" fonts like the cursive text, or the other stylish text fonts - i.e. the ones that are a bit "neater" than the others because they use a set of symbols that are closer to the normal alphabet, and are more consistent in their style.

The site works by generating a bunch of different styles using a large range of different Unicode characters. So technically youre not actually generating fonts, but instead I guess you could say youre generating Instagram-compatible Unicode glyphs :) Want to learn more about Unicode? Read on...

Unicode
Computers must store all data in a binary format - that is, with zeros and ones. So each letter that youre reading right now is stored on my server as a series of zeros and ones. That needs to go from my server to your browser, and your browser needs to understand what those zeros and ones are referring to.In the early days of computing, everyone had their own ideas about which binary codes should refer to which textual characters - there was no universal standard saying 01100001=a, 01100010=b, etc., but that changed in the 1980s with the formation of Unicode. Unicode is an international standards body that works towards a universal specification for text characters. Before Unicode was formed, everyone had their own ways of storing and rendering text, and so whenever two programs from different programmers or organisations had to talk to one another, theyd have to build a "translator" so that they could understand which codes referred to which textual characters.

Unicode had a bit of a tough time though, because all the different organisations didnt want to change their whole system around just to comply with this new spec. So Unicode had to introduce a bunch of different symbol sets to support legacy systems. Over time, the number of symbols grew into the tens of thousands, and today were moving into the hundreds of thousands. Emojis are also text symbols, and so the new emojis that are appearing all the time are coming out of the Unicode working group.

So thats how we ended up with such a large and strange/fun array of symbols, and thats the reason youre here! Ive put together a bunch of fonts for Instagram that should be fund to play with and use for your bio. You may want to mix and match certain parts from different fonts.
